.\"
.\"			g e t s y s o p . p y . 8
.\" $Revision: 166 $
.\" $Author: eckertb $
.\" $Id: getsysop.py.8 166 2014-06-05 11:43:45Z eckertb $
.\"
.\" RMS Gateway
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2014 Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2014 Brian R. Eckert - W3SG
.\"
.\" Questions or problems regarding this program can be emailed
.\" to linux-rmsgw@w3sg.org
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH GETSYSOP.PY 8 "Linux RMS Gateway" "W3SG/DL5DI" "W3SG/DL5DI"
.SH NAME
getsysop.py \- Python script to lookup an RMS gateway sysop record.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getsysop.py -h
.br
.B getsysop.py
.RB [ -d ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR callsign ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B getsysop.py
Python script makes WL2K webservice calls to lookup
the sysop record for the callsign set by the
.I GWCALL
parameter in the
.I gateway.conf
file and prints it to
.BR stdout .
Alternatively, the script will use a callsign
given with a
.B \-c
option on the command line for the lookup.
The callsign must not include an SSID.
When the callsign is obtained from
.I gateway.conf
the script will drop the SSID.
.P
Debugging output is turned on using the
.B \-d
command line argument.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
WL2k webservice call failed.
.TP
.B 2
No record exists.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/gateway.conf
The default gateway configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/winlinkservice.xml
The winlink webservice call configuratiion file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mksysop.py (8),
.BR updatesysop.py (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI <dl5di@gmx.de>
.br
Brian R. Eckert - W3SG <eckertb@w3sg.org>
