.\"
.\"			r m s - c o n f i g . 5
.\" $Revision: 151 $
.\" $Author: eckertb $
.\" $Id: rms-config.5 151 2013-07-04 14:22:24Z eckertb $
.\"
.\" RMS Gateway
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2011 Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Brian R. Eckert - W3SG
.\"
.\" Questions or problems regarding this program can be emailed
.\" to linux-rmsgw@w3sg.org
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH RMS-CONFIG 4 "Linux RMS Gateway" "W3SG/DL5DI" "W3SG/DL5DI"
.SH NAME
gateway.conf \- RMS Gateway configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The gateway configuration file,
.I gateway.conf
by default, is found in the directory
.IR /etc/rmsgw .
.P
It contains a series of name-value pairs of parameters for operation
of the Linux RMS Gateway in for form:
.IP
.nf
NAME=VALUE
.fi
.P
This form makes the configuration file easily usable in shell scripts,
since the can be directly "sourced" to set variables in the script as follows:
.IP
.nf
\&\. /etc/rmsgs/gateway.conf
.fi
.P
.SH CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.TP
.B GWCALL
Sets the callsign and SSID for the gateway. E.g.:
.BR DL5DI-10 .
The GWCALL
.I must
be set to the callsign
.I and
the SSID as regsited in the Winlink network. To do otherwise will
generate erroneous status and version reports in the system.
.TP
.B AUTHMODE
AUTHMODE is set to either
.I SGL
for Secure Gateway Logon, or
.I TEL
for the old TELNET logon method.
As of June 30, 2013, your implementation should be
.I only
for a Secure Gateway Logon.
The TELNET will cease to be supported sometime shortly after
June 30, 2013.
.TP
.B GRIDSQUARE
Sets the Maidenhead Gridsquare Locator for the gateway. E.g.:
.BR FN20dt .
.TP
.B CHANNELFILE
Sets the pathname for the channels file used for the gateway.
The default is
.IR /etc/rmsgw/channels . See
.BR rms-channels (5).
.TP
.B BANNERFILE
Sets the pathname of the bannertext file. The default is
.IR /etc/rmsgw/banner .
.TP
.B LOGFACILITY
Sets the syslog facility to be used for logging. See
.BR syslog (3)
and
.BR syslog.conf (5).
The default is
.BR LOCAL0 .
Note that in a multi-channel gateway, it is possible to use
a separate config file and therefore different syslog facilities for
different channels through this setting.
.IP
Note also that the setting of the facility is
.I not
case sensitive.
.TP
.B LOGMASK
Sets the syslog logmask to control the the priority level of messages to
be written to the syslog. See
.BR syslog (3)
and
.BR syslog.conf (5).
Setting the logmask determines the lowest
.BR syslog (3)
.I priority
that will be written to the logfile. The recognized strings,
in order of their priority from highest to lowest are:
.BR emerg ,
.BR alert ,
.BR crit ,
.BR err ,
.BR warning ,
.BR notice ,
.BR info ,
and
.BR debug .
As you lower the priority, more and more messages will be logged via syslog.
The
.B debug
priority is useful when trying to determine the source of problems either
during development and testing, or during the initial setup and testing;
it should not be used for normal operations. The default is, and most sites
will likely want to use the default value of
.BR info .
.IP
The priority values, like the facility value can be upper or lower case.
.SH EXAMPLE
Following is an example of the W3SG-10 gateway (a simple setup). Please
be sure to change the
.B GWCALL
and
.B GRIDSQUARE
values to match your station, if you copy this example.
.nf
GWCALL=W3SG-10
GRIDSQUARE=FN20dt
CHANNELFILE=/etc/rmsgw/channels.xml
BANNERFILE=/etc/rmsgw/banner
LOGFACILITY=LOCAL0
LOGMASK=DEBUG
AUTHMODE=SGL
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/gateway.conf
The default gateway configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/channels
The RMS gateway channel definitions.
See
.BR rms-channels (5).
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/banner
Banner file, whose contents are sent back through AX.25 after accepting
an RF connection.
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/gwhelp
General help file displayed when executing
.BR \"rmsgw -h\" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rmsgw (1),
.BR rmsgw_aci (1),
.BR syslog (3),
.BR syslog.conf (5),
.BR syslogd.conf (5),
.BR ax25d.confg (5),
.BR cms-hosts (5),
.BR rms-channels (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI <dl5di@gmx.de>
.br
Brian R. Eckert - W3SG <eckertb@w3sg.org>

