.\"
.\"			r m s g w _ a c i . 1
.\" $Revision: 67 $
.\" $Author: eckertb $
.\" $Id: rmsgw_aci.1 67 2008-08-21 18:04:19Z eckertb $
.\"
.\" RMS Gateway
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Brian R. Eckert - W3SG
.\"
.\" Questions or problems regarding this program can be emailed
.\" to linux-rmsgw@w3sg.org
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH RMSGW_ACI 1 "Linux RMS Gateway" "W3SG/DL5DI" "W3SG/DL5DI"
.SH NAME
rmsgw_aci \- Linux RMS Gateway Automatic Check-In Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmsgw_aci -h
.br
.B rmsgw
.RB [ \-c
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR logmask ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B rmsgw_aci
program performs an automatic check-in to the Winlink2000 system for
the Linux RMS Gateway to update the status of all defined channels (see
.IR rms-channels (5)).
.P
All logging for the program (and gateway as a whole) is done
through the standard
.BR syslog (3)
facility, and must be configured along with the gateway itself for
proper logging operation.
Selection of the syslog facility is done through the gateway's
configuration file (see
.IR rms-config (5)),
and the priority logmask is selectable either through the config file or
the
.B \-l
command line option.
.P
The 
.B rmsgw_aci
program is run periodically through cron,
and is best run every 30 minutes,
but on some arbitrary minute of the hour, rather than
exactly on the hour and half-hour. If everyone configured their automatic
check-in to run exactly on the same hour and half-hour,
the CMS's would take a large "hit" all at once, which could
have potential performance issues for the Winlink2000 system.
.P
Your choice of the start for the 30 minute interval to run the automatic
check-in is entirely up to you.
.P
The CMS host list used for the check-in is specified in the
.I /etc/rmsgw/hosts
file (see
.BR cms-hosts (5)),
which contains CMS port and password data along with the CMS host name.
The check-in, along with normal gateway activity,
will round-robin its connections among the configured hosts.
The status files for each host are maintained in
.IR /etc/rmsgw/stat ,
where a file entry for each CMS host name will appear if the host has
had a connection or attempted connection. The access time of the file
indicates when the host was last tried,
and the automatic check-in will attempt to connect to the CMS host that was
least recently tried.
.P
The cron entry should be created for the user that is created during the
gateway installation and setup
.RI ( rmsgw
by default).
.SH EXAMPLE CRONTAB ENTRY
.nf
12,42 * * * * /usr/local/bin/rmsgw_aci >/dev/null 2>&1
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  configfile
Instead of using the standard configfile,
.IR /etc/rmsgw/gateway.conf ,
the file indicated by
.I configfile
is used to set the run-time configuration.
.TP
.BI \-l\  logmask
Set the
.BR syslog (3)
logmask for the automatic check-in. Setting the logmask determines the lowest
.BR syslog (3)
.I priority
that will be written to the logfile. The recognized strings,
in order of their priority from highest to lowest are:
.BR alert ,
.BR crit ,
.BR emerg ,
.BR err ,
.BR warning ,
.BR notice ,
.BR info ,
and
.BR debug .
As you lower the priority, more and more messages will be logged via syslog.
The
.B debug
priority is useful when trying to determine the source of problems either
during development and testing, or during the initial setup and testing;
it should not be used for normal operations. The default is, and most sites
will likely want to use
.BR info .
.IP
The basic check-in messages are logged with a priority of
.BR notice .
Setting the
.B \-l
option on the command line over-rides the internal default and the
.B LOGMASK
setting in
.IR /etc/rmsgw/gateway.conf ,
or a config file specified using
.BR \-c .
See
.BR rms-config (5).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/gateway.conf
The default gateway configuration file.
See
.BR rms-config (5).
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/hosts
The CMS host table.
See
.BR cms-hosts (5).
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/channels.xml
The gateway channels configuration xml document.
See
.BR rms-channels (5).
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/acihelp
General help file displayed when executing
.BR \"rmsgw -h\" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rmsgw (1),
.BR syslog (3),
.BR syslog.conf (5),
.BR syslogd.conf (5),
.BR ax25d.confg (5),
.BR rms-config (5),
.BR cms-hosts (5),
.BR rms-channels (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI <dl5di@gmx.de>
.br
Brian R. Eckert - W3SG <eckertb@w3sg.org>

