.\"
.\"			u p d a t e s y s o p . p y . 8
.\" $Revision: 160 $
.\" $Author: eckertb $
.\" $Id: updatesysop.py.8 160 2014-03-11 06:58:20Z eckertb $
.\"
.\" RMS Gateway
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2014 Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2014 Brian R. Eckert - W3SG
.\"
.\" Questions or problems regarding this program can be emailed
.\" to linux-rmsgw@w3sg.org
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH UPDATESYSOP.PY 8 "Linux RMS Gateway" "W3SG/DL5DI" "W3SG/DL5DI"
.SH NAME
updatesysop.py \- Python script to update the RMS gateway sysop record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B updatesysop.py
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B updatesop.py
Python script updates or creates the sysop record in
the winlink system from the contents of
.IR /etc/rmsgw/sysop.xml .
.P
The script must be run after
.B any
changes are made to
.IR /etc/rmsgw/sysop.xml
for them to be reflected in the winlink system.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
There were errors.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/winlinkservice.xml
The winlink webservice call configuratiion file.
.TP
.I /etc/rmsgw/sysop.xml
The sysop record maintenance file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getsysop.py (8),
.BR mksysop.py (8)
.SH AUTHORS
Hans-J. Barthen - DL5DI <dl5di@gmx.de>
.br
Brian R. Eckert - W3SG <eckertb@w3sg.org>
